>>JAY DYER: Is there
a deeper hidden, more
esoteric meaning behind
the Hollywood films
that we all love to watch?
I'm Jay Dyer.
>>JAY WEIDNER: And
I'm Jay Weidner.
And this is "Hollywood Decoded."
[THEME MUSIC]
>>WEIDNER: We chose "Star
Trek" because it initially
came out of the mind
of Gene Roddenberry.
And it was this whole idea
of the future of humanity
as a peaceful,
spacefaring people
with all races
included in his vision
and going around the
universe exploring.
And this is what
I truly believe,
and I think Jay
agrees, is probably
the most hopeful future
for the human race.
And I think Roddenberry
was really presenting this
and the '60s
generation, the boomers,
just lapped it up and
became what it became today,
which is this huge phenomenon.
What's was interesting
about "Star Trek"
is that it did come from the
mind of Gene Roddenberry,
but it seems to have an earlier
fungal growth, you might say,
in that Roddenberry was on
the set of the show "The Outer
Limits" every day, according
to one of the sub-producers Tom
Seldin.
And the producer of
the show "Outer Limits"
was Leslie Stevens,
Jr. Leslie Stevens,
Sr. was the Vice
Admiral in the US Navy
and was working with
Rear Admiral Rico
Botta, who was part of
the people in the Navy
that brought the German--
scientists over in
Operation Paperclip
and started the
Secret Space Program.
So it was very likely that
they had many conversations.
And Gene Roddenberry may
have actually gotten the idea
from Leslie Stevens, Jr., who
got it from his father, Leslie
Stevens.
And possibly
Roddenberry was trying
to evoke what their
view of the future
was going to be in this
Secret Space Program.
>>DYER: I think you're
right about that,
because in my
research, I've come
across a lot of evidence that
is even public on the RAND
Corporation's website.
And of course, RAND
comes out of the Cold War
and is intimately
connected to NASA,
because both RAND and NASA
are under the aegis of the Air
Force.
So they were very interested
in aerospace and controlling
aerospace.
And I think that's the real
root of the Secret Space Program
that you're talking about,
where all this black budget
money goes.
And it's a fact, actually, that
the RAND Corporation directly
consulted on the early episodes
of "Star Trek" with Gene
Roddenberry.
So when you see
things like phasers
or when you see things like
handheld communicating devices,
sliding doors, that's
actually mentioned
in the RAND Corporation
document, automation
of everything--
this was planned.
And I think we were
being, in a way, kind
of predictively programmed--
>> Captain, you're making
a most unusual request.
>> I'm aware of that, Sir, but
it's of the utmost importance.
You must give me permission
to divert to Vulcan.
>> But you refuse to explain
why it is so important.
>>DYER: --to accept these
coming gadgets, and so forth.
And I think that
we could probably
postulate, that beyond that,
there's also, like you said,
a Secret Space Program.
>>WEIDNER: And as "Star
Trek", the original series
was being developed,
across the Atlantic,
Stanley Kubrick is
making "2001," again
with all the help from
aerospace companies, saying,
Stanley, do this,
Stanley, show that.
And you can see that they're
both working together--
one in cinema, one
in television--
to create this kind
of future world
that we are going to
be probably immersed in
very soon, if the
technologies that we're being
told about really do exist.
And I actually think
they really do exist.
>>DYER: Yeah, absolutely.
There's a funny
interview too, which
makes me think of your work,
where I saw Shatner talking
about being given kind of a
tour of NASA back in the time
when they were doing the
original "Star Trek."
And he said they
played a joke on him,
because they let him into
this experimental aircraft.
And outside of his
passenger window,
they flew an actual
Enterprise by the window.
And he said it looked real.
[LAUGHS] And he said, I can't
believe people could have--
people could have been
fooled by the Moon, right?
So I think that echoes what
you were talking about.
Maybe Shatner has your
work or something.
>>WEIDNER: Well, I don't know.
I'm sure NASA did have some
very advanced technologies,
from projecting things and
doing all sorts of work.
And we know that they
were working with Stanley
on high technology
cinema devices.
So they might have
been showing off.
>>DYER: Which I
think is a cover.
Those things are a cover
for the real space program.
>>WEIDNER: I agree.
That's exactly what's going on.
>>DYER: Well,
another thing that I
find interesting
about Roddenberry
himself is that there seems
to be two Roddenberrys.
There's the vocal,
atheist Roddenberry, who
is a hardcore
materialist, doesn't
believe in anything spiritual.
And yet, when I see all
of these episodes, even
in the old series and then
into "Next Generation,"
as well as the other
series and the movies,
I see a lot of
gnostic influence.
I see a lot of Platonism
and Neoplatonism.
I see ancient mythology,
esoteric teachings, alchemy.
All of these things
come into play.
So I wonder if there
weren't two Roddenberrys.
Maybe Roddenberry was
conflicted over time
and shifted his views.
We also know that
he was involved
in a lot of groups
that were channeling
and thought that they might
be contacting alien entities--
The Nine, and so forth.
So there's a lot of weird
parallels and maybe a divided
mind, perhaps, in the
case of Roddenberry.
>>WEIDNER: This seems to be--
kind of the whole group
that was around The Nine
seems to have this
conflicted view,
whether it's Arthur
Young or Andrija
Puharich to Gene Roddenberry.
They all were atheists.
But they all had
this idea that there
is this consciousness, this
mysterious consciousness,
that could be tapped.
And they were actually
channeling entities
that they thought were alien.
This is a crazy story.
It goes into Jack Sarfatti,
the famous physicist who
claimed that he received phone
calls from an alien voice that
gave him high physics concepts.
This is all happening
at the same time.
Late '50s, early '60s,
all of these things
are going on-- in Hollywood,
"Star Trek," Stanley Kubrick,
the physicist, Gene Roddenberry.
The whole thing is
this like weird mix
of some outside
influence trying to shape
the culture of the future
through the shows that
were happening.
And it looks to me like
the Secret Space Program
is behind this kind of
predictive programming
that they were
doing at the time.
>>DYER: Right.
Well, and what's interesting
is about the episode that we're
going to be talking
about, "The Chase,"
is that we're going to look
back to ancient history
in the episode that tells
us about our origins
and gives us some
aspect of a DNA code.
And I think that what
we're going to see
is that this DNA code
actually suggests
the possibility of a single
source or a single maker.
I mean, the way
DNA is structured,
it's actually like
a computer program.
It's very similar.
And so that, to me, suggests
a single designer or origin.
And that's all included
in this episode, which,
again, is very odd
given this supposed
atheism of Roddenberry.
>>WEIDNER: "Star Trek,
Next Generation,"
"The Chase" is actually
them letting out
some of their most secret
information about our origins.
>>DYER: Panspermia, basically.
Panspermia is a very popular
theory amongst a lot of very
well-known scientists--
and Crick, and so forth.
And that's really, I think,
the basis of this episode.
But it also ties into
ancient mythology.
So the first clip that
we're in a look at is the--
in this clip, what's
happening is this archeologist
that Picard used to study
under is showing him
this object that is kind of a
foreshadowing for what happens
in the rest of this episode.
So this object isn't directly
connected to the civilization
that they're going to explore.
But again, it foreshadows,
because what Picard figures out
is that the Kurlan
civilization behind this object
believe that an individual was
a community of individuals.
So there's an
organic relationship
between all the lifeforms
in these communities.
And so that's actually
going to be the message
of this whole episode.
But it's foreshadowed at the
beginning in this object.
So let's look at the
Kurlan civilization.
>> You mean it's complete?
[EXHALES] Oh.
[EXHALES] Well, the
Kurlan civilization
believed that an individual
was a community of individuals.
Inside us are many voices,
each with its own desires,
its own style, its
own view of the world.
The Kurlan civilization died
out thousands of years ago.
It is extraordinarily rare
to find a figurine intact.
Professor, this is
an incredible find.
>> It's yours, Jean-Luc.
>> Oh, no.
No.
How can I accept this?
>> Graciously, Mr. Picard.
You could accept it graciously.
>> Thank you.
>>DYER: There's a lot
going on in this episode.
And the first thing
that we note is
that this father figure
archetype that is
talking to Picard that he--
Picard used to study under
him, his name is Galen.
And Galen was the
famous Greek physician
and philosopher and astrologer.
So that's mentioned
for a reason.
And I think that
we're immediately
talking about archetypes.
So the archetype that
Picard is dealing with
is this father
figure that he feels
like he's let down, because
Picard chose the Star captain
route in life and path.
And he didn't choose
to be an archaeologist.
So there's this tension
between that archetype.
And ultimately,
that's also going
to foreshadow the
tension between the races
and their maker,
creator, archetype.
And that's what we're going to
see throughout this episode.
And I think there's just so many
levels of what's going on here.
>> We're going.
The Enterprise isn't something
that I can leave and then come
back to.
If I go, I go for good.
And it's not something
that I'm prepared to do.
>> This is not some
undergraduate study project
that you're turning down.
This is a chance of a lifetime.
Don't make the
same mistake twice.
>> You don't believe that my
career in Starfleet has been
a mistake.
>> What are you doing
at this very moment?
A study mission.
You're like some Roman centurion
out patrolling the provinces,
maintaining a dull
and bloated empire.
>> We both know that's not true.
>> I know this, I know
that as a scholar,
you're nothing but a dilettante.
Years ago, I gave
you the opportunity
to become the
foremost archeologist
of your generation.
Your achievements could have
outstripped even my own.
But no, you decided to reject
a life of profound discovery.
And you walked out on me.
>>WEIDNER: I think it's
interesting your remark earlier
about panspermia,
because I think
that when Crick and
Watson discovered DNA,
Crick was really in a conundrum.
And he could not understand
how something as complex as DNA
could possibly have
formed in the short time
that life was on Earth, the
4 billion years or whatever,
2 billion years actually.
And so he was really
vexed by that.
And that's when he--
I don't think he came up
with the panspermia theory,
but he adapted it and said, no,
this is actually what must be,
that somehow there is
DNA moving through space
and is falling
down onto planets.
And if that planet is
lucky enough to have water,
that DNA will now sprout
and turn into life.
And I think that that is really
what this episode is really
trying to say.
It's trying to back
up Crick's ideas
that DNA is so much
more complicated,
it couldn't possibly
have originated here.
>>DYER: Yeah.
What I find fascinating is
that, as we're going to see,
Picard and the
crew will actually
say that the DNA sequence
that they discover
is like a computer code.
He says, it's almost like
an ancient civilization
had an advanced technology,
that they created humans
to be these kind of
programmed-- or well, the races,
actually-- to be these
kind of programmed beings
like they were made
in a computer code.
And they're talking
about the DNA.
But originally, they don't
know what this object is
and what this code is.
And eventually, they figure
out, oh, this is actually DNA,
maybe this could lead
us back to our origins.
And again, it's going to be--
they're going to have to
answer that question that's
raised by that initial object
of "the one and the many," how
do we balance the relationship
between many individuals
and one whole group, many
races, one whole group.
That's the focus
of this episode.
And it all comes back to
the spiritual origins.
>>WEIDNER: That's right, because
there's really again two kinds
of one--
there's the unity of
everybody together,
and then there is
one as an individual.
And the entire
problem that we face
is, how do we unite the two.
How do we take the individual
and make them part of the one
without ruining
their individual--
>>DYER: Yes.
>>WEIDNER: --nature.
And I think that's what
this episode is about.
And it's a very brave
question to ask.
And I like the answer
that they give.
>>DYER: This is a perennial
problem in philosophy.
That's what I studied in
grad school, was philosophy.
And you'll notice a lot of
philosophers even comment
that the history of
Western philosophy,
as well as ancient
Eastern philosophy,
is precisely this question
of the one versus the many.
So I like that this episode
raises that question,
because you can go back to
the ancient Vedic texts.
At the very beginning,
5000 BC to 1,500
BC, they're asking
that question of,
how do we balance the
one versus the many?
Is there one whole absolute?
What about all the
particulars of our experience?
That's the ultimate
philosophical question.
And this episode is raising it.
And so let's go to the next
clip, which is, Captain, this
is not a natural sequence,
it's part of an algorithm.
>> This is not part of a
natural design, Captain.
This is part of an algorithm,
coded at the molecular level.
>> An algorithm?
Are you saying that
these DNA fragments
are elements in some
kind of computer program?
>> I know how it sounds.
But there's no way this
could be a random formation.
This is definitely
part of a program.
>> This fragment has been part
of every DNA strand on Earth
since life began there.
And the other fragments
are just as old.
Someone must have written this
program over 4 billion years
ago.
>> So 4 billion years ago,
someone scattered this genetic
material into the primordial
soup of at least 19 different
planets across the galaxy.
>> The genetic information
must have been incorporated
into the earliest life forms on
these planets and then passed
down through each generation.
>> But why would anyone do
this in the first place?
>> And what was this
program designed to do?
>> Well, we couldn't know that
until we assembled the entire
program and ran it.
We've tried all of
the DNA material
in the Federation
computer, but we
haven't been able to come up
with any compatible protein
configurations.
>> Then they must be from
worlds outside the Federation.
Mr. Data, how many
people on the Enterprise
are from non-Federation planets?
>> 17, Sir.
>> You know, this
may be a long shot,
but we should check each one of
these 17 people to see if they
have the correct
protein configuration.
>> I'll begin collecting
DNA samples now.
>> You know, Captain,
I've been thinking,
somebody else must know
about this program.
I bet one of the missing
fragments was on Indri VIII.
And that's why it was destroyed.
>> To keep us from finding
that piece of the puzzle.
>>DYER: So DNA is the
information code for life.
And it doesn't just encode
numerical sequences.
It also carries information.
And I think that's
what's so fascinating, is
that modern science
actually backs up
the idea of race memories
or genetic memories
and that we are in a weird way
linked to all of our ancestors
back to the beginning--
whatever that was.
And it's also hinted
at that, not just
our physical biological
being, but also
reality itself has this
kind of numerical sequence
or structure.
So I almost get the
impression that--
and there's other episodes of
"Star Trek, Next Generation"
that hints at this--
of a kind of platonic
view of reality,
that reality is made up of
formal geometric structures
and that the reality
that we experience
on the third dimension plane
is not the only reality.
There's also other
levels of reality.
Socrates mentions
this in the "Phaedo."
He says there's other
dimensions, actually,
at the end of the dialogue.
So it's just fascinating
to me that this is actually
incorporating Pythagoreanism,
as well as DNA, and coding,
and so forth, as the
basis of this episode.
It's very, very
philosophical, very spiritual.
>>WEIDNER: It is.
And it gets back to that
whole thing of our origins
and who we are and why
this is so important.
Insiders tell me that many of
the alien races that they've
encountered are humanoid and
that this humanoid example is
spread throughout the
whole entire galaxy
and that they are humanoid.
And Carl Sagan
would argue, no, no,
if it was a different form
on a different planet,
it would evolve
completely differently,
as he did in several
of his books.
But in fact, if
panspermia is the vehicle
behind the spreading of
life, then he's wrong.
It would be a humanoid
type of creature being
spread throughout the galaxy.
And I think it's
very interesting
that the aliens, the builder
race that spread the DNA
everywhere, chose 19 worlds.
19 is a huge number in Islam.
It's a sacred number within the
flower of life, which is made
out-- it has 19 aspects to it.
And so it's very interesting
that they chose the number 19.
And people who know
sacred geometry
will know why that
is so important.
And again, the
writers behind this
seem to be wanting to tell us
something very, very important.
And I think that--
that's one of the reasons I
wanted to do this episode,
because the whole
idea of the builder
race, this original race that
lived in the galaxy, that
originated all life, that is
really important, because that
really removes a
lot of the barriers
that we have between
races and between people.
Religions and ideas were all
coming from one unified source.
And that is the big secret
that needs to be given out
by the Secret Space Program.
If that's what they
found, then they really
need to tell us this.
>>DYER: So in the
next clip, we're
going to look at the meeting
with the higher entity,
the transcendent being that
we think in this episode is
the origin of all the races.
So let's look at
"it was our wish."
>> Life evolved in my planet
before all others us in this
part of the galaxy.
We left our world,
explored the stars,
and found none like ourselves.
Our civilizations
thrived for ages.
But what is the life of one race
compared to the vast stretches
of cosmic time?
We knew that one day we would
be gone, that nothing of us
would survive.
So we left you.
Our scientists seeded
the primordial oceans
of many worlds, where
life was in its infancy.
The seed codes
directed your evolution
toward a physical
form resembling ours--
this body you see
before you, which
is, of course, shaped as yours
as shaped, for you are the end
result. The seed codes also
contained this message,
which were scattered
in fragments
on many different worlds.
It was our hope
that you would have
to come together in
fellowship and companionship
to hear this message.
And if you can see and hear me,
our hope has been fulfilled.
You are a monument,
not too our greatness,
but to our existence.
That was our wish, that
you, too, would know life
and would keep alive our memory.
There is something
of us in each of you,
and so something of
you in each other.
Remember us.
>>DYER: So as the races
discover their origins,
right before this
scene, there's a bunch
of petty squabbling over the
discovery of a bioweapon.
Some of the races think
that they can actually,
because of this sequence
that they've discovered,
and re-engineer it, reverse
engineer it into a bioweapon.
And that's amazing, because
at the time this was produced,
we didn't know about the PNAC
document, which actually talks
about race-specific bioweapons.
So I would venture to guess
that the military has had
that knowledge for a long time.
But what is the warning
of this episode?
It's precisely
that, that how are
we going to use the
knowledge that we have?
Are we going to use it in a
strictly social Darwinian sense
of trying to stamp
out everyone else that
doesn't hold our views?
Are we going to be
tyrannical and Nietzschean
and Ubermenschen and try
to squash all resistance?
Or are we going to
learn, which I appreciate
that Picard and the
crew in this episode
are actually interested in
discovering the questions,
the riddles.
They want to solve the riddles.
They're not interested
in creating bioweapons.
But that's the danger,
is which of these
are we going to choose?
And I think that the key to
this episode and the key message
that we need to
take away is that,
until we get past
these distinctions
and learn that there
is a common source,
a common spiritual transcendent
unity from which we
do originate, from
which we come,
then we're always
going to be caught up
in these petty divisions.
I don't think that
means that we have
to lose our individuality
or our distinctions.
But rather as philosophy
has always tried to say
and as ancient religions
have always tried to say,
there has to be some
kind of perpetual balance
between the one and the many.
Otherwise, you're
caught in what's
called dialectical tensions.
And you can never get
out of that cycle.
>>WEIDNER: It definitely
is the human dilemma.
That's for sure.
One thing I want to mention
is that, if you actually
examine DNA, you'll find out
that all living things on Earth
are really closely
related to each other.
And so there's hardly any
difference between plants
and animals and humans.
And we all share--
And then, of course, it also
brings up what is junk DNA?
Is it really junk DNA?
Or is it part of
some larger program
that this race put into us that
we just haven't decipher yet?
>>DYER: Well, actually,
that's actually--
that's been discarded now.
For the most part, it's
no longer junk DNA.
And even Richard Dawkins has
changed his mind and said--
>>WEIDNER: Good.
>>DYER: --oh, it's actually
not junk DNA anymore.
I was wrong about that.
>>WEIDNER: So what
did they think it is?
>>DYER: Well, they
think that the coding
has a lot of functions that
we just don't know yet.
>>WEIDNER: That's
what it is, yeah.
Yeah, it's a sub-code
of some kind.
Yeah.
And so what we know now
that DNA is active in water.
And we know that is
the basis of all life.
And we know that Crick and
Watson, who discovered it,
Watson believed in
panspermia, because he
understood the complexities
of this whole thing.
So we know that we probably did
not originate here on Earth.
If a scholar like Crick thinks
that we did not originate here,
I think we need to take
that into consideration.
>>DYER: "Star Trek" is
amazing on many levels,
principally because it really
is the origin of modern science
fiction.
The whole idea of
man going into space,
and so forth, really has
its seeds in "Star Trek."
I mean, yeah, you could
find pulp science fiction
and you could find HG Wells
stories and stuff like that.
But for the mass
mind in terms of TV,
which is far more powerful
than any kind of book,
as many of the
propagandists have said,
I think that what implanted in
everyone's mind, the wonders
and adventures of space travel,
which would then kind of build
up the prowess of NASA is
precise the science fiction
in "Star Trek." and I think
that the fact that Roddenberry
is consulting with people from
the RAND Corporation, people
from the Deep State,
just like Kubrick,
I think there's a lot
more going on here.
And we're being told a lot more
through these kinds of shows
than we are, as you
said, mainstream media.
And what is it ultimately?
Well, the message
is philosophical.
It's spiritual.
It's religious.
It's that there is
a single origin.
And we can look to
things like code and DNA
at the geometrical
structure of reality
that Plato and Socrates
were talking about 2,000,
3,000 years ago.
That is the key to this
and to all existence.
>>WEIDNER: "Star Trek"
was the first time
that Hollywood was throwing big
money behind a science fiction
show.
You could argue that "Outer
Limits" was a science fiction
show.
But it was a very low
budget science fiction show.
And Hollywood had
not really decided
to throw money behind a
mature science fiction show.
You have to remember that
science fiction was pretty
immature up until "Star Trek."
And "Star Trek" took its
science fiction seriously,
just like Kubrick took his
science fiction seriously.
And the fact that these are
going on at the same time,
I think, is indicative
of what they're
trying to tell us and
what kind of future
that we're going to have.
And again, this whole thing
is built around the human race
being unified to go and
become what we should be,
which is explorers of the stars.
And I think that is
our destiny as a race.
>>DYER: Join us again next
time on "Hollywood Decoded."
I'm Jay Dyer.
>>WEIDNER: And I'm Jay Weidner,
and thanks for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]